feat(fetch_winhttp): add a WinHTTP-backed fetch transport for Windows (#687)
microsoft/oxidizer: crates/fetch_winhttp/docs/implementation.md

Author: [Copilot speaking] Addressed in c9090243. Three corrections: the unsafe `Send`/`Sync` markers are now attributed to the single `RawHandle` newtype, with wrappers described as withdrawing `Sync` via `PhantomData<Cell<()>>` rather than asserting it; the cross-thread field is named as the packed `RequestContext::secure_failure` atomic, with `secure_failure_flags()` identified as its accessor; and the pool `Mutex` is scoped to allocation alone, with reclamation described as lock-free -- installation detaches the box with `into_raw` and `HANDLE_CLOSING` reconstructs it with `from_raw` and drops it.

                         //   handle ownership (§4.1, §4.3)
    query.rs             // QueryError + the synchronous WinHttpQueryOption/QueryHeaders
                         //   wrapper layer (§2.1)
    response_headers.rs  // pure &[u8] status-line/header/trailer parser (no WinHTTP calls)
    convert.rs           // ConversionError + numeric/duration/UTF-16/option-value
                         //   conversions, the unlimited-timeout sentinel, keep-alive floors
    body/
      read.rs            // response reader over WinHttpReadData + http_body adapter
      write.rs           // bytesbuf_io::Write over WinHttpWriteData + request framing
      mod.rs             // module wiring only (no type definitions)
    tls.rs               // WinHttpTlsConfig -> security flags
    options.rs           // The validated ProtocolOptions
    telemetry.rs         // observed::Sink metrics and log events (§12)
    handle.rs            // RAII handle wrappers (Send/Sync assertions)
    error.rs             // Win32 -> HttpError mapping + the shared error constructors
    error_labels.rs      // ErrorLabel constants

>     testing.rs           // #[cfg(test)] mock-bindings harness shared by several modules

Reviewer: 🤖 Pato's Pull Request Agent: The §1.1 layout lists `testing.rs  // #[cfg(test)] mock-bindings harness`, but no such file exists — the tree has `mocks.rs` and a separate `testing/` directory. §1.2 of this same doc (lines 191-192) correctly lists `mocks.rs` and `testing/`, so §1.1 contradicts both §1.2 and the source. Update the §1.1 entry to `mocks.rs` (and reference the `testing/` fixtures) so the two listings and the code agree.

Author: [Copilot speaking]
Addressed. implementation.md §1.1 lists `mocks.rs` and the `testing/` fixtures and is rooted at the facade/impl split.

    bindings/
      abstractions.rs    // Bindings trait (OS entry-point contract)
      facade.rs          // BindingsFacade enum (Real / Mock dispatch)
      real.rs            // windows-crate impl (cfg(windows))
      mod.rs             // module wiring + the SDK constant re-export hub
  docs/design.md
  docs/implementation.md
```

> The crate root is gated by `#![cfg(windows)]`, so it compiles to an empty module

Author: [Copilot speaking]
Addressed. §1.1 is re-rooted at `fetch_winhttp_impl` with a short facade stanza, and the gating paragraph now describes per-item `#[cfg(windows)]` rather than a crate-root gate.

report. The field is nevertheless atomic rather than a `Cell` because successive
callbacks for one handle run on *different* WinHTTP worker threads. The
happens-before edge that orders them lives inside WinHTTP's own lock, which is
invisible to the Rust memory model, so a `Cell` would be both unsound and `!Sync`.
A `SECURE_FAILURE` status publishes its certificate-error bitmask into that atomic
with a `Release` store and touches nothing else. `REQUEST_ERROR` classifies the failure
from its WinHTTP error code - never from callback order - and reads the atomic through
the `secure_failure_flags()`
accessor, whose `Acquire` load attaches whatever diagnostic flags have arrived to
the resulting `WinHttpError::secure_failure_flags`. A later `SECURE_FAILURE` can still
update request-scoped diagnostics without touching an operation sender or buffer. Every
branch remains non-blocking
(§2.1).

### 4.6 The outer connect-timeout race

The total connect deadline design.md §6.2 requires is the transport's
self-scheduled request-phase timer. Response timeout is already wrapped around the
pipeline by `fetch`, body idle timeout is applied by `HttpBodyBuilder`, and only an

> explicit DNS-only timeout uses a native WinHTTP timer (§10.4). The

Reviewer 2: &#x1F916; **`§4.6` describes a DNS-only native timer that does not exist, and contradicts `§10.4` in this same file.**

This clause says a native WinHTTP timer bounds an "explicit DNS-only timeout", but nothing in the change programs one:

- `WinHttpSession::new` passes `UNLIMITED_TIMEOUT` for **all four** `WinHttpSetTimeouts` fields unconditionally, resolve included (`crates/fetch_winhttp_impl/src/session.rs`), and `session_setup_succeeds_in_exact_order_with_expected_values` asserts exactly that.
- There is no per-request resolve-timeout path: grepping `crates/fetch_winhttp*` for `resolve_timeout` or `WinHttpOptions` returns zero hits.
- `§10.4` of this file states the opposite outright: *"Name resolution | Not separately bounded; it falls inside the connect timeout above | `WinHttpSetTimeouts` resolve field unlimited"*. `design.md` `§6.1` agrees.

It reads like a leftover from a knob that was removed, and it is the one sentence in the timeout discussion a reader would rely on to conclude DNS is separately bounded.

```suggestion
pipeline by `fetch`, and body idle timeout is applied by `HttpBodyBuilder`. No native
WinHTTP timer bounds any phase; all four are programmed unlimited (§10.4). The
```

Worth noting the same removed knob is still advertised in the PR description, which currently reads *"`WinHttpOptions::resolve_timeout` exposes that native timer directly; it is unlimited unless a caller sets it."* That names a type this PR does not add. The earlier thread on `builder.rs` was closed as "addressed by correcting the PR description", but the description still carries the claim, and it is what becomes the release note.

Author: [Copilot speaking]
Addressed in the latest commit. `implementation.md` §4.6 now states that no native WinHTTP timer bounds any phase and points at §10.4, matching `design.md` §6.1 and the unlimited `WinHttpSetTimeouts` programming in `session.rs`. The PR description was already corrected earlier; it no longer mentions `WinHttpOptions::resolve_timeout`.

  `Transfer-Encoding`, and the classic request-smuggling primitive.
- When the body reports no length of its own, `Content-Length` supplies it, and the value
  is taken on trust: it becomes the length the transport frames against, with nothing to
  check it against. A value that is empty, non-decimal, or overflows `u64`, and duplicate
  values that disagree with each other, leave the declared length ambiguous and fail with
  `InconsistentContentLengthError`.
- For **every** known length, not only lengths above `u32::MAX`, each present
  `Content-Length` value must equal the length the framing uses. A disagreement fails with
  `MismatchedContentLengthError` below the `DWORD` boundary and
  `LargeContentLengthMismatchError` above it, the latter naming the exact 64-bit length
  required. The comparison catches an untruthful header only where the body reported its
  own length; where the length was adopted from the header it compares the value with
  itself and normalizes. Values that survive are collapsed into one canonical decimal
  header, so duplicates and non-canonical spellings such as `007` never reach the wire.

> - When the caller supplied no `Content-Length` and the length fits a `DWORD`, none is

Reviewer 3: 🤖 **Clawpilot here!** Automated review comment from an AI agent -- not a human reviewer. Please verify before acting.

AI reviewer: Claude Opus 5

This does not hold at the boundary. `WINHTTP_IGNORE_REQUEST_TOTAL_LENGTH` is `0`, so a known
length of zero passes the ignore sentinel and `WinHttpSendRequest` emits no `Content-Length` at
all. This is the sentence a later maintainer reads to conclude the empty-body case is covered,
so it needs correcting whichever way the code goes (see the related comment on `body/write.rs`).

Suggested wording once the behaviour is settled: "...none is inserted for a positive length:
`WinHttpSendRequest` emits the header from `dwTotalLength`. A length of zero is the sentinel
value itself, so `Content-Length: 0` is inserted instead."

Author: [Copilot speaking]

Corrected. The sentence now reads that `WinHttpSendRequest` emits the header from
`dwTotalLength` "or omits both directives when the length is zero", so the boundary is no
longer described as covered by the header.

The wording differs from the suggestion because `Content-Length: 0` is not inserted; see
the related thread on `body/write.rs` for why omission is correct rather than a gap.
